Masks are a low-cost device to reduce virus particles
 inhaled/exhaled, however they have several drawbacks.
Masks don't provide as much protection as people think,
in fact making people with masks take risks and unnencessary
 travel will increase transmission.

1.Mass-produced Cotton Masks are inherently inferior
to respirators with real filters,
specifically gas masks in filtering any particles, they
 are only used due low cost: the filtering of N95(95%) grade masks is
 far below of HEPA(99.97%) and ULPA(99.999%) standard filters.
(Using several masks at once does increase filtering capability,
but is far less effective vs gas masks).

2.Masks require proper fitting without any air-gaps,
since an air gap negates protection from incoming air.
This is the main problem of filtering viral particles.
The design of masks requires a clean shaven, even skin to
fit tightly with mask edges, without any crumpling(which allows
 air-gaps), as the path of least resistance will go through
 open space in the air gap.

3.Masks pores allow smaller particles to pass:
the virus in smaller particles,e.g. micro-dust, tiny droplets,smoke.
Efficiency of filtering, even with 3-4 masks is inherently limited,
as fibers in the filter are simply too porous for filtering
microscopic droplets/particles,
which requires a HEPA/ULPA filter capable of capturing them at
the pressure required to breath through is
too high(which is dealt with fan-assisted respirators).

4.Masks quickly degrade with organic compounds and
fouling/blocking of the pores, 
dependent on humidity and air quality.
Disposable masks also create an infection vector if used by
 infected individuals and discarded in public places: the idea of 
 "throwaway masks" is bad for epidemic control, as all such
 masks would need to be safely burned or stashed in secure
 container for later disposal(same with disposable gloves).


Ideally if epidemic was taken seriously,
state-sponsored production of ULPA respirators should
be required in all contexts(hospitals, airports, crowds),
instead of relying on N95 masks that only reduce
the inhaled particles by 95% at peak efficiency of the standard.. 

Another promising approach is bactericidal compounds in masks
(though evidently they also have a limited lifespan),
https://www.jpost.com/health-science/israel-makes-anti-coronavirus-mask-from-biological-warfare-disinfectant-652565
